All right.
So we've spoken about all the various aspects of crowdfunding.
We've taken you from the research phase through to the analytics through to getting traffic and creating
your campaign.
Now it's finally time to talk about post-campaign what you need to do after your campaign has ended
and one of the first thing I want to talk to you about is fees and some of the fees that you might not
have thought about when you embarked on your crowdfunding him pain.
And this is not here to scare you.
It's just for you to plan ahead of time and make sure that you price accordingly so that you don't end
up losing out after your successful campaign.
So this is a breakdown of all of the costs that the Creator incurred from this particular project is
called the filmography of aircraft and it was created by Kathryn Lavery.
She had 340 backers who pledged $25000.
And here is where all of that $25 went after the campaign.
So she start out with 25000 $161.
Now you have to remember that both kickstart and indigo go charge 5 percent fees in order to have your
project listed on their website.
So $25000 minus about $1000 gets you now down to twenty three thousand nine hundred two dollars.
So we've really taken a significant haircut.
Now the next part is you have to realize that some of the fees are not collected because Kickstarter
takes down credit card details and people can cancel their credit card payments or they can change their
credit cards.
Some of the pledges that people have actually made even after your campaign has ended may get withdrawn
by the credit card company.
So in this case she actually saw a decrease of only about $90.
So we're still on twenty three thousand eight hundred thirteen dollars after accounting for the last
pledges due to credit cards.
Now the other thing you have to remember that during your campaign people can cancel their pledges at
any time.
So you might see money coming in but then you might see money going back out again because people cancel
their pledges.
Now a great tip to prevent this from happening to you is once people put in their pledge is to send
them a personal message through Kickstarter or through IndieGoGo thanking them for their pledge and
thanking them for believing in your cause and this way.
You know you really give that personal touch.
You help people realize that their pledge is going towards an actual person and not some sort of you
know gray uniform company.
Right.
So that is a really really good tip.
And that's something that we did that a lot of people really appreciated.
We genuinely thanked people for their pledges after every single pledge came in and we had a lot of
messages back from people saying you know I've been planning on Kickstarter for five years now I pledged
for over 100 projects and nobody has personally thanked me for my pledge.
So that's just a little tip in there to prevent you from having more cancel pledges.
Now the next thing to account for is the payment processing fees.
So Kickstarter used to use Amazon but now I think they use stripe.
So the payment processing fees are something like around 3 percent of whatever it is that you make.
So in this case they actually ended up being about one thousand one hundred eighty five dollars from
that $23000 that she collected.
So we're now down to about $22000.
Bear with me there's more to come.
So in her project she promised people these books and framed images and accounting for all of the printing
impacting costs.
It costs about 13000 in order to produce all of the rewards that she promised her backers.
And now this brings us down to just under $10000.
So the point here is that if you aren't going to print and package any sort of physical good make sure
that you work out these costs ahead of time and make sure that you give yourself enough of a buffer
so that you don't end up being out of pocket.
Then we have fullfilment So people who actually packaged the products together and then send them on
their way.
And that cost her about $400.
So we're now down to nine thousand two hundred seventy one.
Then there's postage which is another about $5000 went out down to four thousand four hundred fifty.
So now all of that four thousand four hundred fifty that remains is the income right and the money that
you raise and Kickstarter counts as income at least within the U.S. and the UK.
So that means you have to pay income tax on whatever it is that you make at the end.
So you want to make sure that if your project ends towards the end of the year to pay for all the things
that you're going to pay for.
So the printing the packaging etc. before you transfer it to your bank account.
So that way you only end up paying for your profit instead of all the expenses as well.
And that reduces your tax burden.
But on this 4400 50 she paid around almost two thousand in taxes away in the U.S. this was.
So she's left with two thousand five hundred forty three plus nine cents of total net profit from that
$20000 Kickstarter campaign.
So when you run a Kickstarter an indigo campaign you know a lot of your friends and family will see
that number and see your goal and see the amount of UV rays pass.
Your goal as your profit.
You know.
So for example if you raise a million dollars and your goal is only 10000.
They think that you're probably sitting on some yacht you know using that 990 thousand dollars of your
extra money.
But as we all know that's not how it works.
And the important thing to realize is that you must work out all of this math that's going to come up
later on so that you actually end up being profitable and being able to deliver people what you promised
them.